What is the name, customer ID, and country of each customer not in the US?
SELECT customerid, firstname, lastname, country FROM chinook.customers WHERE country <> 'USA' 

-What is the name and customer ID for each customer in Brazil?
SELECT customerid, firstname, lastname, country FROM chinook.customers WHERE country = 'Brazil'

-What is the full name, invoice ID, invoice date, and billing country for each customer in Brazil?
SELECT firstname, lastname, invoiceid, invoicedate, billingcountry FROM chinook.customers cust
LEFT JOIN chinook.invoices inv
ON cust.customerid=inv.customerid
WHERE billingcountry= 'Brazil' 

-What are the names of the employees who are Sales Agents? 
SELECT firstname, lastname, title FROM chinook.employees 
WHERE title LIKE '%Sales Support Agent%'

-Which countries are our invoices coming from?
SELECT DISTINCT billingcountry FROM chinook.invoices

-Who is the sales rep associated with each invoice?
SELECT emp.firstname, emp.lastname, inv.invoiceid FROM chinook.customers cust
JOIN chinook.employees emp ON cust.supportrepid=emp.employeeid
JOIN chinook.invoices inv ON cust.customerid=inv.customerid

-What is the customer name, country, invoice total, and sales rep name for each customer?
SELECT cust.firstname, cust.lastname, emp.firstname, emp.lastname, inv.invoiceid, inv.total, inv.billingcountry FROM chinook.customers cust
JOIN chinook.employees emp ON cust.supportrepid=emp.employeeid
JOIN chinook.invoices inv ON cust.customerid=inv.customerid

-How many invoices were there in 2009?
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM chinook.invoices
WHERE invoicedate LIKE '%2009%'

-What were the total sales in 2009?
SELECT SUM(total) FROM chinook.invoices
WHERE invoicedate LIKE '%2009%'

-What is the title of the purchased track for each invoice line ID?
SELECT invitem.invoicelineid, track.name FROM chinook.invoice_items invitem 
JOIN chinook.tracks track ON invitem.trackid= track.trackid

-What is the track name and artist for each invoice line ID?
SELECT invitem.invoicelineid, track.name AS track_name, art.name AS artist FROM chinook.invoice_items invitem 
JOIN chinook.tracks track ON invitem.trackid= track.trackid
JOIN chinook.albums alb ON track.albumid=alb.AlbumId
JOIN chinook.artists art ON alb.artistid=art.artistid;
